Briefly summarize the DriverPass project. Who was the client? What type of system did they want you to design?
-
The DriverPass client was a team of people seeking to fill a market void of driving students struggling to pass their driving tests. They wanted a web-based system that let the student purchase packages with varying perks, each package with some combination of driving lessons, DMV lessons, and online coursework. These activities were meant to help the student pass their driving exam sooner than if studying/practicing on their own.

What did you do particularly well?
-
I like my UML diagrams in the Final Project Document. While I'm sure they could be improved, I think they're neat, succinct, and easy-to-follow, especially the activity diagrams. I used feedback from my peers to make some adjustments to the use case diagram, and incorporating good feedback is an important skill to develop, so that's also a positive. As for my Project One document, I'm nothing if not thorough! While I do think I missed some things due to negligence, I got good practice writing detailed requirements in easy-to-read bullet lists. I could probably make the lists/points even easier to read by adding, editing, combining, or omitting some things based on relevance to the client.

If you could choose one part of your work on these documents to revise, what would you pick? How would you improve it?
-
I would revise the functional requirements section in Project One. I feel like I missed small things here and there that the client asked for, which would have a negative cascading effect if development received an incomplete document. I would comb through the client interview transcript once again and take notes on every little thing they asked for or implied, then translate that directly into functional requirements. I think, in an effort to save myself some trouble, I ended up making more work for myself by breaking up my original, lengthy "System Background" and "Objectives and Goals" sections into pieces of the "Functional Requirements" section.

How did you interpret the user’s needs and implement them into your system design? Why is it so important to consider the user’s needs when designing?
-
The users needs informed me every step of the way! I translated the client's requirements into use cases, which focused on user needs. For example, if the IT officer needs to be able to reset a student's password, then the system must allow for that process in steps in its plan and design. It's so important to consider the user's needs when designing because, otherwise, the project will surely be lacking. Users cover customers and staff, and without designing with their usage in mind, one isn't really designing for the system at all. This system was meant for use, so without thinking of the users, a systems analyst would just design something fancy to look at.

How do you approach designing software? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to analyze and design a system?
-
To design software, I start with pseudocode and UML diagrams, like an activity diagram. An activity diagram gives very visual indicators of functions, conditional statements, and loops without getting into code. Pseudocode is a bit more code-like, but still general enough to act as a structure for actual development. Using visual tools like these helps combat procrastination when writing code because they outline the steps. Since it was useful to refer to the DriverPass interview transcript just about every week for this course, I would gather requirements via recorded or transcripted interview for a future project. This would give me the client's own words to refer to, which would be especially useful if they were unable to meet for several weeks after the initial meeting.
